---
title: A newer look of the blog
date: 2021-10-12
---
I haven't posted in a while, that is partly because of my exams and couple of side projects I have been involved in (I might finish it in couple of weeks and write about it then). In the mean time, I wanted to talk about the modifications in to this blog. The routing is slicker and the code block looks better. Only thing I need to change is the rendering of equations, which I was having a hard time with. I haven't touched this code for over 3 weeks now as I had exams just a week ago, but now I will be making some changes to the way things look around here + I will be adding some Easter eggs. By the way, this was made using one of the most beautiful framework in the world, <a href="https://kit.svelte.dev/" target="_blank">Sveltekit</a> and <a href="https://svelte.dev" target="_blank">Svelte</a>.

# What are the changes?!
I love the old hyde poole theme, but some of the parts weren't very good looking, so I made a couple of changes. The <a href="/about">About Section</a> has changed a bit, the <a href="/blogs"> Blogs Section</a> has changed quite a lot and there is a dark mode development going on. The padding and margins have changed as well but the responsiveness is the same as before.

The code section has changed as well. It is <a href="https://github.com/morhetz/gruvbox" target="_blank">gruvbox light theme</a>, and yes I love light theme more than dark theme. The most important thing that has changed is the routing system, which is all thanks to svelte.

# Working with Svelte & Tailwind
Svelte is the god amongst men when it comes to web dev. This view is coming from a person who has 0 experience with frontend experience other than a dangerously little knowledge about javascript. The workflow is extremely smooth and the final product is better than the development process, which is saying a lot as the development process with svelte was extraordinarily beautiful.

Along with svelte, <a href="https://tailwindcss.com/">tailwindcss</a> also helped me create this website such quickly. The bunch of predefined classes with tailwind makes the whole css game go much enjoyable. I don't have to write anything, just mix and match the classes and there comes the result. All and all, these two things are enough for most of my webdev requirements.

# Things to be done
There are couple of things that needs to be done. I am planning to add a dark mode to the website, there is a hidden easter egg that adds a minimal dark mode to the website. The most important thing right now is the rendering of the mathematical equations to the blog. I am kinda afraid that I will have to write a parser, which I am terrible at. My search for a better solution is on, and I hope I find it.
 
